Influenza

1.About

Influenza is a highly infectious viral illness. 
The name “influenza” originated in 15th century Italy, from an epidemic attributed to “influence of the stars.” 
The first pandemic, or worldwide epidemic, that clearly fits the description of influenza was in 1580. 
At least four pandemics of influenza occurred in the 19th century, and three occurred in the 20th century. 
The pandemic of “Spanish” influenza in 1918–1919 caused an estimated 21 million deaths worldwide. 
The first pandemic of the 21st century occurred in 2009–2010.

Smith, Andrewes, and Laidlaw isolated influenza A virus in ferrets in 1933, and Francis isolated influenza B virus in 1936.
 In 1936, Burnet discovered that influenza virus could be grown in embryonated hens’ eggs. 
This led to the study of the characteristics of the virus and the development of inactivated vaccines. 
The protective efficacy of these inactivated vaccines was determined in the 1950s. 
The first live attenuated influenza vaccine was licensed in 2003.

2.Influenza Virus

Influenza is a single-stranded, helically shaped, RNA virus of the orthomyxovirus family. 
There are 3 types of influenza based on the basic antigen of the nuclear material:

Influenza A causes moderate to severe illness and affects all age groups. 
The virus infects humans and other animals. 
Influenza A viruses are perpetuated in nature by wild birds, predominantly waterfowl. 
Most of these viruses are not pathogenic to their natural hosts and do not change or evolve. 

Influenza B generally causes milder disease than type A and primarily affects children. 
Influenza B is more stable than influenza A, with less antigenic drift and consequent immunologic stability. 
It affects only humans. 

Influenza C is rarely reported as a cause of human illness, probably because most cases are subclinical. 
It has not been associated with epidemic disease.

3.Spread

People with flu can spread it to others up to about 6 feet away. 
Most experts think that flu viruses spread mainly by droplets made when people with flu cough, sneeze or talk. 
These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. 
Less often, a person might get flu by touching a surface or object that has flu virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes.

People with flu are most contagious in the first three to four days after their illness begins.  
Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. 
Children and some people with weakened immune systems may  pass the virus for longer than 7 days.

Symptoms can begin about 2 days (but can range from 1 to 4 days) after the virus enters the body. 
That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. 
Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms. 
During this time, those people may still spread the virus to others.

4.Prevention

Avoid close contact.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick. 
When you are sick, keep your distance from others to protect them from getting sick too.

Stay home when you are sick.
If possible, stay home from work, school, and errands when you are sick. 
This will help prevent spreading your illness to others.

Cover your mouth and nose.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing. 
It may prevent those around you from getting sick. 
Flu and other serious respiratory illnesses, like respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), whooping cough, and COVID-19, are spread by cough, sneezing, or unclean hands.

Clean your hands.
Washing your hands often will help protect you from germs. 
If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand rub.

Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.
Germs are often spread when a person touches something that is contaminated with germs and then touches his or her eyes, nose, or mouth.

Practice other good health habits.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces at home, work or school, especially when someone is ill. 
Get plenty of sleep, be physically active, manage your stress, drink plenty of fluids, and eat nutritious food.

7.Treatment

In some cases, influenza A symptoms can clear on their own with ample rest and fluid intake. 
In other cases, your doctor may prescribe antiviral medication to fight the infection.

Common antiviral prescriptions include:

zanamivir (Relenza)
oseltamivir (Tamiflu)
peramivir (Rapivab)
These medications, known as neuraminidase inhibitors, reduce the ability of the influenza virus to spread from cell to cell, slowing down the infection process.
Though effective, these medications can cause side effects such as nausea and vomiting. 
If you begin to experience any of these symptoms or if your condition worsens, stop using the prescription and visit your doctor immediately.