HIV

1.About

HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks the body’s immune system. 
If HIV is not treated, it can lead to AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome).
There is currently no effective cure. 
Once people get HIV, they have it for life.
But with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled. 
People with HIV who get effective HIV treatment can live long, healthy lives and protect their partners.

HIV infection in humans came from a type of chimpanzee in Central Africa.
The chimpanzee version of the virus (called simian immunodeficiency virus, or SIV) was probably passed to humans when humans hunted these chimpanzees for meat and came in contact with their infected blood.
Studies show that HIV may have jumped from chimpanzees to humans as far back as the late 1800s.
Over decades, HIV slowly spread across Africa and later into other parts of the world.

2.HIV

The HIV virion is ~100 nm in diameter. 
Its innermost region consists of a cone-shaped core that includes two copies of the (positive sense) ssRNA genome, the enzymes reverse transcriptase, integrase and protease, some minor proteins, and the major core protein.
HIV is composed of two copies of noncovalently linked, unspliced, positive-sense single-stranded RNA enclosed by a conical capsid composed of the viral protein p24.

When people with HIV don’t get treatment, they typically progress through three stage:

Stage 1: Acute HIV Infection

People have a large amount of HIV in their blood. They are very contagious.
Some people have flu-like symptoms. This is the body’s natural response to infection.
But some people may not feel sick right away or at all.
If you have flu-like symptoms and think you may have been exposed to HIV, seek medical care and ask for a test to diagnose acute infection.
Only antigen/antibody tests or nucleic acid tests (NATs) can diagnose acute infection.

Stage 2: Chronic HIV Infection

This stage is also called asymptomatic HIV infection or clinical latency.
HIV is still active but reproduces at very low levels.
People may not have any symptoms or get sick during this phase.
Without taking HIV medicine, this period may last a decade or longer, but some may progress faster.
People can transmit HIV in this phase.
At the end of this phase, the amount of HIV in the blood (called viral load) goes up and the CD4 cell count goes down. 
The person may have symptoms as the virus levels increase in the body, and the person moves into Stage 3.
People who take HIV medicine as prescribed may never move into Stage 3.

Stage 3: Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS)

The most severe phase of HIV infection.
People with AIDS have such badly damaged immune systems that they get an increasing number of severe illnesses, called opportunistic infections.
People receive an AIDS diagnosis when their CD4 cell count drops below 200 cells/mm, or if they develop certain opportunistic infections.
People with AIDS can have a high viral load and be very infectious.
Without treatment, people with AIDS typically survive about three years.

3.Spread

Most people who get HIV get it through:

1. Having anal sex with someone who has HIV without using protection (like condoms or medicine to treat or prevent HIV).

2. Having vaginal sex with someone who has HIV without using protection (like condoms or medicine to treat or prevent HIV).

3. Sharing needles, syringes, or other drug injection equipment (for example, cookers) with someone who has HIV.

4. HIV can also be transmitted from a mother to her baby during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding. 

4.Prevention

Correct and consistent use of male and female condoms during vaginal or anal penetration can protect against the spread of HIV.
Testing for HIV and other STIs is strongly advised for all people exposed to any of the risk factors. 
This enables people to learn of their own HIV status and access necessary prevention and treatment services without delay.
People who inject drugs can take precautions against becoming infected with HIV by using sterile injecting equipment (including needles and syringes) for each injection, and not sharing drug-using equipment and drug solutions.

HIV can be suppressed by treatment regimens composed by a combination of 3 or more antiretroviral drugs. 
Current antiretroviral therapy (ART) does not cure HIV infection but highly suppresses viral replication within a person's body and allows an individual's immune system recovery to strengthen and regain the capacity to fight off infections.