Ebola

1.About

Ebola virus disease (EVD) is a deadly disease with occasional outbreaks that occur primarily on the African continent. 
EVD most commonly affects people and nonhuman primates (such as monkeys, gorillas, and chimpanzees). 
It is caused by an infection with Ebola virus (species Zaire ebolavirus).

Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976 near the Ebola River in what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
Since then, the majority of cases and outbreaks of Ebola Virus Disease have occurred in Africa. 
The 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa began in a rural setting of southeastern Guinea, spread to urban areas and across borders within weeks, and became a global epidemic within months.
Scientists do not know where Ebola virus comes from. 
However, based on the nature of similar viruses, they believe the virus is animal-borne, with bats or nonhuman primates (chimpanzees, apes, monkeys, etc.) being the most likely source. 
Infected animals carrying the virus can transmit it to other animals, like apes, monkeys, duikers and humans.

2.Ebola Virus

The EVD is caused by an infection with a group of viruses within the genus Ebolavirus:

Ebola virus (species Zaire ebolavirus)
Sudan virus (species Sudan ebolavirus)
Taï Forest virus (species Taï Forest ebolavirus, formerly Côte d’Ivoire ebolavirus)
Bundibugyo virus (species Bundibugyo ebolavirus)
Reston virus (species Reston ebolavirus)
Bombali virus (species Bombali ebolavirus)
In which the Zaire ebolavirus has caused more outbreaks than of any other species.

The Zaire ebolavirus carries a negative-sense RNA genome in virions that are cylindrical/tubular, and contain viral envelope, matrix, and nucleocapsid components.
Its genome contains one molecule of linear, single-stranded, negative-sense RNA, 18,959 to 18,961 nucleotides in length.

3.Spread

The virus spreads through direct contact (such as through broken skin or mucous membranes in the eyes, nose, or mouth) with:
Blood or body fluids (urine, saliva, sweat, feces, vomit, breast milk, and semen) of a person who is sick with or has died from Ebola virus disease (EVD).
Objects (such as clothes, bedding, needles, and medical equipment) contaminated with body fluids from a person who is sick with or has died from EVD.
Infected fruit bats or nonhuman primates (such as apes and monkeys).
Semen from a man who recovered from EVD (through oral, vaginal, or anal sex). 
The virus can remain in certain body fluids (including semen) of a patient who has recovered from EVD, even if they no longer have symptoms of severe illness. 
There is no evidence that Ebola can be spread through sex or other contact with vaginal fluids from a woman who has had Ebola.

When people become infected with Ebola, they do not start developing signs or symptoms right away. 
This period between exposure to an illness and having symptoms is known as the incubation period. 
A person can only spread Ebola to other people after they develop signs and symptoms of Ebola.

5.Prevention

When living in or traveling to a region where Ebola virus is potentially present, there are a number of ways to protect yourself and prevent the spread of EVD.

Avoid contact with blood and body fluids (such as urine, feces, saliva, sweat, vomit, breast milk, amniotic fluid, semen, and vaginal fluids) of people who are sick.
Avoid contact with semen from a man who has recovered from EVD, until testing shows that the virus is gone from his semen.
Avoid contact with items that may have come in contact with an infected person’s blood or body fluids (such as clothes, bedding, needles, and medical equipment).
Avoid funeral or burial practices that involve touching the body of someone who died from EVD or suspect EVD.
Avoid contact with bats, forest antelopes, and nonhuman primates (such as monkeys and chimpanzees) blood, fluids, or raw meat prepared from these or unknown animals (bushmeat).

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the Ebola vaccine rVSV-ZEBOV (called Ervebo™) on December 19, 2019.
This vaccine is given as a single dose vaccine and has been found to be safe and protective against Zaire ebolavirus, which has caused the largest and most deadly Ebola outbreaks to date.